Day 18: Firing the laser
Today we worked firing aligning the laser and adjusting the signal and receiver (this maybe called and signal and idler in the experiment set-up). We order of this was to set-up the signal and receiver. I had join in a late today, however, Seth was there. He was able to set-up the proper adjustment for these two key components. The distance from the center of the signal and receiver was 6 inches with both of there angles being set to an angle 3 degrees. All there was to do was adjust the laser so that it lines up with the lens. It was a bit tricky, so you have to be careful when setting the laser due to how the focal lens adjust. The way we did was by having the lights turned of so that we could see the laser from which adjusted the trajectory of the laser from the lens of the respective signal and receiver lens so that would be centered with the main lens (may have to find the official term). However, something that we noticed was the one of the lens had a more visible light when compared to the other. This is strange because they should be equally hard to see or easy to spot. This was a concerning but we decided to pay too mind to it since it was not something that needed our immediate attention.

Once this is done, it time for the next step which would be running the laser pump with SPCM (Single Photon Counting Module). **Key Note**: Make sure no visible light can be seen before operating the SPCM with FPGA and your operating systems. **ANY LIGHT DURING THIS PROCESS WILL CAUSE THE SPCM TO OVERLOAD AND BE DAMAGE.** Double check with everything before the actual testing. There will be a green light head light that you can use during this time for being able to see. Keep in mind that the green light will affect your results if you shine it in the receiver and signal. 

Running the experiment was not too hard but we did get some results that were not exactly that we desired. Our receiver A and receiver B were in position. (Key reminder: A is properly aligned and B is unaligned at 2 degrees instead of 3 degrees). Our control receiver which we called A was supposed to have higher counts was actually having lower counts of the experimental B. This is bad because A is supposed to be our controlled which supposed to have a higher count than B. The counts were at roughly 15,000 counts for A and 20, 000 counts for B. This was with the red laser. This worrying because that meant something was wrong with our set-up. We tried the optic fiber cable so that A would be B and A would be B. This had no effect since it was just reading B as the higher counter (B was A originally). We working idea that the reason why this was the case was due to what saw earlier in the day with the one of the lens have a stronger shine than the other one.

We decided that the next course of action would be to check lens of A and B. We decided to take out the lens and color filter for A and B and swap them. However, Seth realized that A lens was a little smudge so we decided with try to clean it off but giving it a drip of cleaning alcohol onto the lens. We did not use anything rub or clean off the lens because of the potential of ruining the lens in the process. After this was done, place them in to see if anything would change and it there was change that would help us realize the problem. We ran it this time, and we noticed it was A having higher counts this time round. So with this we could narrow it down to the lens or the filter, but given what we saw early in the day we decided to just swap the lens. After testing this idea, it proved to be right. The main issue was the lens were not working at the same level as each other. Next we decided to run the laser pumps just to get some data.

Ran some test the laser got some questionable data. The data gathered for the red laser seem to fine when it came to numbers. It got around what we got before 15,000 and 20,000 counts. However, when we ran the blue laser it was significantly lower at 800 and 700 counts. Key note: we where just running our varying receiver at this moment in time. That is where the day concluded.